## Researching Botnets ##

There is a vast number of botnets featured in this repo, and there is an even 
larger number of them not catalogued here. This document should hopefully shed 
some light on what _is_ featured in this collection, and what you can do with 
this information.

## What is in this repo? ##

This information is subject to change, but is generally what was initially 
collected when this repo was created.

#### TL.BOTNET ####

These are botnets that may be merged with TL-TROJAN at a later date. There is 
a variety of Trojans and other malware with a distinct botnet component.

#### TL.EXPLOIT_SCAN ####

This is a collection of Exploits, and Vulnerability Scanners used by botnet 
maintainers.

Scanners are to generate lists of vulnerable IPs by checking whether or not 
they exhibit characteristics of a vulnerable device. In some cases, a scanner 
may perform the initial loading of a payload (eg. downloading a script), or 
other tactic to get an initial foothold, but this is not always the case.

Exploits are the exploits that are actually performed on a list of devices. 
They are usually python scripts, and either scan at random looking for a 
vulnerable IP, or they process a list of IPs generated by a Scanner to attempt 
to exploit them. Exploit scripts may at times contain a number of coding errors, 
that are a dead giveaway for those inspecting the scope of a single botnet.

#### TL.IRC ####

This is a collection of IRC based botnets. This type of botnet relies on an 
IRC server for command and control. They are less common now than they were 
before, largely due to more modern C2 options available. Many early QBOT variants 
were IRC based, and you may see some similarities in code to other botnets.

#### TL.JS ####

This is collection of nodeJS based botnets. They use a command and control 
architecture developed in nodeJS. 

#### TL.LISTS ####

This information is available upon request.

#### TL.MIRAI ####

This is a collection of nearly every Mirai variant available until May 2019. 
There may be additional variants out there, but given the sample size, there 
are enough individual samples for a reasonable analysis.

Each variant is sorted by name, and within each folder, there may be different 
versions of a given variant.

Some variants may contain custom versions of exploits, with elements such as 
useragents, bot names, or other details that can aid in fingerprinting a given 
version.

#### TL.MISC ####

This collection contains sub collections that don't quite fit into any of the 
other categories. There are miscellaneous bots, tools, clients/servers, configs, 
and other ephemera that may be useful for research, but overall don't stand out 
enough on their own.

There is also a BIN.Archive folder in TL.MISC that contains some sample binaries 
from various bot campaigns in 2019 for research purposes.

#### TL.P2P ####

This collection contains some earlier versions of QBot malware that doesn't 
quite fit into the QBot category. They may be more unique forks, or contain 
elements from a completely different class of botnet. The variants in here 
are typically much older, as P2P refers to the method of self-replication, that 
was superseded by the slang term "self-rep". They may be treated as QBot-like, 
for research purposes, but they are not typically deployed as often in the wild 
due to relying on older self replication methods like simple telnet bruteforcing.

#### TL.QBOT ####

This collection contains many variants of the QBot family of malware. Dating all 
the way from 2014, when the first iterations appeared under the Lizkebab/Torlus 
names, up until today. The source is largely unchanged, but given the ease of set 
up, and the "stability" of the source, this family of bots will likely be around 
in some form for a while.

#### TL.TOOLS ####

This collection contains various tools and resources that have been included with 
many botnet source releases.

### Additional Information ###

In QBOT_HISTORY.md, we briefly touched on the history of a major family of botnets 
that was originally popularized when it was deployed by LizardSquad, and other 
groups, to perform some well-known DDoS attacks around 2014/2015.

Botnets in TL.BOTNET provide less of a historical resource, and more of an exhibition 
of some diversity in modern botnets. Many of the families included, such as ZeuS, 
have to continue to find new vectors through which to propagate. The source codes 
for these are much more complex than the IoT botnet families, and target consumer 
operating systems, rather than embedded. 

## Informing the Present ##

There are many ways to use the source code in this repo to understand the state of 
botnets today. A multitude of tools and services exist for analyzing malware and
how it spreads.

### Using Greynoise ###

GreyNoise has built a system that listens for traffic across the internet, and 
records them for researchers, corporations, and others, to understand the 
background noise of internet, and determine what they should be paying attention 
to. Using GreyNoise, we can take what we have learned from these botnet sources, 
tools, and exploits, and track what is still active in the wild. 

With botnets, much of what we can see primarily relies on how the bots are 
attempting to self-replicate, or how malicious actors are scanning to determine 
whether or not a given system is exploitable. 

GreyNoise has tagged a lot of malicious outgoing traffic based on various exploits 
that have been used in the malware contained in this repo. Taking a look at their 
[cheatsheet](https://viz.greynoise.io/cheat-sheet/examples), you can see that there are many ways to explore the dataset, and look 
up where certain types of malware may be operating from.

### Inhale ###

Inhale is a tool written by @netspooky that was used to aggregate and classify 
a majority of the files you see in this repo. It uses a number of static analysis 
techniques to enumerate data from a given file, and store that information for 
further analysis. You can find out more information about using it [here](https://github.com/netspooky/inhale).

